ReadMe file

This folder contains several files.
If you are here just to enjoy the Atlas, then look at three files:
(1) Atlas-Introduction.html, that introduces you to the subject of the Atlas. 
(2) Atlas-Guide.html, that tells you how to navigate the altas.
(3) Tree-Atlas.html, for example, which is why you are here.

If you are knowledgeable about some area of science, culture, 
art, anything, consider creating an Altas yourself.
It's a fair amount of work, but it's rewarding.
If you are interested, read on. 

The idea behind an Atlas is this:
You want to present a modest collection of:
trees, wildflowers, birds, mushrooms, domestic flowers, sculptures, etc, 
in a forest, on a mountain, in a park, arboretum, botanical garden...,
textiles, native masks, artworks, minerals, or cars in a museum...
distinctive houses, buildings, monuments in a neighborhood, town, or city ...

An "atlas" doesn't have to be an atlas!
It could be a comparison or contrast among several things,
like different mathmatical proofs of several propositions.
It could be a timeline comparing the development of
metals technologies over time in various parts of the world.
It could be a comparison of language grammers.
It could trace the evolution of the eye.
Anything...

The kind of Atlas you create is a table in two dimensions:
several columns for the different items of interest,
and several rows for their shared aspects.

Across the table, the viewer will move from one column to another,
in the order you feel is most helpful for enjoying
and understanding the subject of your atlas.
Up and down, the viewer will move from one aspect to another,
again in the most helpful order.

As viewer navigates about in the atlas, we say she moves from cell to cell.
Each cell can contain a photo, audio, video, text, html, 
photo plus audio, or a text plus audio.

The Atlas-Builder will happily create a big atlas of say, 100 items 
by 15 aspects, but that will choke an average phone.
So, if the phone is your target, keep your ambition more modest:
a sample rather than a comprehensive volume.
If your target is the PC, then your atlas can be bigger
because the average PC is more powerful than a phone.

How to build your atlas:
Start out by building your work-space.
Create a folder like Documents/Atlas, that will be where
you keep your tools for building an atlas.
Move Atlas-Builder.html, Template Plan.txt, and Get Started.txt there.
Create folders there for building specific atlases, like 
Documents/Atlas/Ajijic Tree Atlas and 
Documents/Atlas/Ajijic Bird Atlas.

Open Documents/Atlas/Plan template.txt in your 
favorite text editor, and open a new tab next to it.
Copy-and-paste to create your own plan in the new tab
The Atlas-Builder will read the following inputs from it:
a name for the atlas, names for the columns, 
names for the rows, Captions and subtitles.
Then do "Save As" > Documents/Atlas/MyAtlas/MyAtlas Plan.txt

You have to collect all your media into Documents/Atlas/MyAtlas.
The simplest thing is to name each media item after
the cell in which it should be displayed,
for example: oak.tree.jpg, elm.bark.mp4, maple.leaf.txt .
The extension -- or in MacOS the type -- tells Atlas-Builder
what type of media goes into the cell.

Run Atlas-Builder.html in the browser of your choice.
Tap the "Select folder" button and Atlas-Builder opens a file picker.
Navigate to your MyAtlas folder.
It's confusing because when you get to Documents/Atlas/MyAtlas
the file picker complains "No items match your search". 
Ignore the message and tap the Upload button at lower-right. 
Then confirm that you trust the "site", which of course is your own folder.

Give Atlas-Builder one of your Atlas Plan.txt files;
you can have several -- MyAtlas1 Plan.txt, MyAtlas2 Plan.txt, etc. --
so that you can test and compare various ideas and configurations.
 
When you tap the "Build Atlas" button, 
Atlas-Builder builds and downloads your Atlas.
Run it in a browser on your PC or phone, or both.
Refine and rebuild until you like what you've created. 
Then publish.


 
